# Guide to the data

The file `experiment.csv` has 34 columns and 140 rows. Each row corresponds to one experimental session completed by a participant. Each column corresponds to an experimental variable or a particular type of behavior that was recorded from the participants.

The data contained in each column is described below:

#### participantID

A unique identifier for each participant who took the experiment. This corresponds to the participant's AMT worker ID but was recoded to preserve anonymity.

#### completion_code

A unique code generated by the experiment app each time a session was initiated. The participant entered this code on AMT to prove that they had participated in our experiment.

#### AMT_submit_time

The time that the participant submitted the AMT task, as recorded by the AMT servers in the PST time zone.

#### AMT_duration

The duration, in seconds, between the time the AMT task was accepted and the time it was submitted, as recorded by AMT servers. This does not necessarily reflect the time it took the participant to complete the experiment, as the experiment ran in a separate browser window from the AMT task page, and tasks can be accepted before or after the experiment is completed. See column `duration` for our own measurement of experiment duration.

#### output_sequence

A binary string of the participant's prediction (button press) per trial. The length of this string is the number of trials they completed. The code for the button (0 or 1) is determined by `R_map`.

#### input_sequence

A binary string of the correct prediction (0 or 1) per trial. This sequence was generated by the Hidden Markov Model corresponding to the experimental condition for the current session. See `input_type` for condition names.

#### window_size_x

The width of the window that the experiment ran in, on the user's device. Each experiment ran in a browser window and this number measured the display area of the experiment. See `window_size_y` for the height.

#### gender

The participant's self-reported age in a drop-down box with 3 options: female, male, and non-binary.

#### R_map

This variable determines the mapping of the numbers in `input_sequence` to buttons on the user's screen. It shows determines which number is mapped to the button on the right. If `R_map` = 1, then the button on the right is called "1". If `R_map` = 0, then the button on the right is called "0". The same mapping is also used to encode `output_sequence`, so that 	`input_sequence` and `output_sequence` can be easily compared. You can validate `R_map` by comparing `output_sequence` to `RL_sequence`, because they're just two different encodings of the same sequence (the participant's prediction sequence).

#### handedness

The participant's self-reported handedness in a drop-down box with 3 options: right, left, and ambidexterous.

#### hidden_sequence

A string containing the hidden state of the Hidden Markov Model per trial. See `input_sequence` for the symbols emitted by the Hidden Markov Model on each trial.

#### trials_completed

The total number of trials completed in the current session. Participants could take the experiment for as long as they wanted to, capped at 2700 trials. Since this was a self-paced design, when I use the term "trial" I mean each button press the participant made in the prediction phase of the experiment. The ith button press corresponds to the ith trial.

#### input_type

The experimental condition for the current session. The three conditions were: Noisy Periodic, Double Process, and Even Process.

#### first_press

The button that participants pressed on their first practice trial during the instructions phase, left (L) or right (R). We recorded this to check if there was a handedness bias and there wasn't.

#### device_input

We programmed this experiment so that it would work seamlessly on a desktop computer (via mouse and keyboard inputs) or a touchscreen device (via touch screen button presses). This variable coded whether the device type was a keyboard or a touch screen. To our great dismay, not a single participant took the experiment on a touch screen device! All of the entries in `device_input` were "keyboard".

#### age

The participant's self-reported age in a free response text entry box, limited to numerals of length one to three.

#### duration

The duration of the experiment, in seconds, as recorded by our app. The counter started when the participant initiated a new experimental session in their web browser and ended when they exited the experiment or closed the browser.

#### window_size_y

The height of the window that the experiment ran in, on the user's device. Each experiment ran in a browser window and this number measured the display area of the experiment. See `window_size_x` for the width.

#### accuracy

A binary sequence showing which trials were correct (1) or incorrect (0). This can be validated by comparing `input_sequence` with `output_sequence`: where these two sequences show the same number, `accuracy` = 1, and where these two sequences show different numbers, `accuracy` = 0.

#### RL_sequence

The same sequence as `output_sequence` but coded in terms of which button the participant pressed (R = right, L = left). This was independently collected in the experiment code to validate that the `R_map` and `output_sequence` variables were recording participant behavior correctly.

#### date

The date and time that the user opened the experiment app. This was recorded on Google App Engine's server in GMT.

#### accuracy_threshold

The cumulative accuracy required to enter into the bonus round phase of the experiment. This varied per condition based in partial reflection of the ceiling on predictive accuracy for each Hidden Markov Model.

#### level2_started

The trial number on which the user entered the bonus level. The earliest possible trial for this was 51. The experiment was programmed to not proceed to the bonus level until 50 trials had been completed.

#### date_ts

The same information contained in `date` but saved in unix timestamp format.

#### comp_wrongs

The number of times that each of the three comprehsion questions were answered incorrectly. For example: [0,0,0] means all of the questions were answered correctly on the first try. [2,1,0] would mean that they got the first question wrong twice, the second question wrong once, and the last question correct on the first try. If the total of `comp_wrongs` reached 2 at any point during the comprehension questions phase, the participant would be booted out of the experiment, paid for their time, and restricted from taking the experiment again.

#### RT

The time between button presses, in milliseconds. The first entry corresponds to how long it took the participant to press one of the buttons to make their first prediction, measured from the moment the screen of the "prediction phase" of the experiment appeared on their browser. The next entry is the number of milliseconds elapsed between the 1st and the 2nd button press. To state this more generally, the ith RT corresponds to the time elapsed between button presses i-1 and i.
Note: We called this column "RT", but its not really a reaction time (as in as reaction to an external stimulus).

#### WM

A binary variable stating whether this session's participant also participated in the working memory test. TRUE means they participanted in the working memory test and FALSE means they did not.

#### WM_code

A unique code generated by the working memory test app. The participant entered this code on AMT to prove that they had participated in our working memory test. This is equivalent to the `completion_code` for the main experiment, but for the working memory test.

#### WM_score

The score on the working memory test, ranging from 1 to 42. If the participant took the working memory test more than once, this is the score from the first time they took the test.

#### total_rate

The participant's rate, computed across all trials. Rate is the mutual information between `output_sequence` and `hidden_sequence`.

#### total_accuracy

The participant's accuracy, computed across all trials. Accuracy is the percentage of 1s in `accuracy`.

#### rate_2ndhalf

The participant's rate, computed across the second half of all their trials.

#### accuracy_2ndhalf

The participant's accuracy, computed across the second half of all their trials.

#### PRA_distance

Euclidean distance of a participant's rate and accuracy score in this session from the PRA curve, along the y-axis (accuracy dimension).

